So, let’s have a look at some of the top foods for glaucoma patients and for those who wish to minimize the odds of being diagnosed with it.
1.    Sea Food
A study carried out by British researchers revealed that EPA (eicosapentaenoic), DHA (docosahexaenoic) fatty acids as well as total omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids’ levels were lowered in glaucoma patients. According to researchers, DHA and EPA may play a part in improving ocular blood flow, impaired systemic microcirculation and optic neuropathy, all of these associated with glaucoma. Wild-caught salmon remains one of the best natural sources of EPA and DHA along with fatty cold-water fish, such as tuna, herring, sardines and mackerel. So, making sea food a part of your diet regime is the most rational thing you can do.

2.     Leafy Greens
Majority of researchers believe that leafy greens can play a role in minimizing glaucoma risks. For instance, as little as one serving of collard greens or kale per week can lower your glaucoma risk by about 57% making it one of rthe best foods to consume to avoid glaucoma.  A Harvard School study suggests that the higher nitrate levels of leafy greens may be responsible for their glaucoma-fighting ability of leafy greens. Nitrates associated with leafy greens serve as a precursor for nitric oxide, a compound thought to be helpful in boosting healthy blood circulation. Based on their research, the Harvard researchers were able to conclude that glaucoma risk was lowered about 20% – 30% due to nitrates provided by leafy greens. In fact, this rate rose as higher as 40% – 50% for a specific type of glaucoma linked to poor flow of blood.

3.    Eggplant
‘Solanum Melongena’ (the biological name of ‘eggplant’) is also known to be helpful in averting glaucoma. According to a study, consuming about 10 grams of eggplant daily resulted in lowering down intraocular pressure by 25%.

4.    Goji Berries
Vision loss due to higher intraocular pressure is induced by deterioration and demise of RGCs (Retinal Ganglion Cells) in the retina. A recent study involving animals revealed that ‘Lycium babarum L.’ (the medicinal name for the plant commonly known as the ‘Goji Plant’) helps prevent deterioration of the RGCs, slashing the neuro-degeneration in the retina that results due to glaucoma. However, this improvement was independent of intraocular pressure, i.e. the goji boosted RGC survival though eye pressure remained high.

5.    Blackcurrants
Are naturally rich in anthocyanins, which have proven their potential in slowing down the deterioration of visual field, as various researches have concluded. They are also known for normalizing the flow of blood in the eyes.

6.    Peaches and Oranges
According to a NIH study, women consuming fresh peaches and oranges in excess of two servings per week reduced their odds of developing glaucoma. Orange consumption led to 82% reduction in glaucoma development, while peaches served to cut this risk by 70% percent. What’s important to note is that eating fresh fruit made the difference; for example, orange juice did not offer the same benefits even to its regular drinkers. Similarly, fresh peaches did the job much better as compared to canned peaches.

7.    Drinkable
Research has also proven the efficacy of flavonoids in enhancing vision of glaucoma patients with high eye pressure, especially slowing down the progression of visual field loss. In essence, flavonoids are polyphenol compounds existing naturally in plants. Cocoa, green tea and red wine are known to have flavonoids in abundance naturally, which bestows them antioxidant powers and neuroprotective abilities, quite beneficial for glaucoma patients.